Hey what's up guys.
We're back here with another lesson in the last lesson we started building our first sideburn.
We stopped at the point where we were building the structure of each of our two sidebars.
Notice here in the widget manager that we already have the two sidebars area created.
However if we add some widgets in this outburst nothing will happen.
Let's for example where the text widget in the sideboard is going to be placed on the themes home page
at a title and some random text here.
Let's say now if you look at the home page.
Nothing has changed yet.
The same thing will happen with a sidebar that's going to add on the blog page.
The problem as always is that we need to tell WordPress where our sidebars will be placed.
And this has to be done inside some template file.
So let's start by creating a new file here in our theme's folder.
This file will be called sidebar on the page be
inside this file you're going to add the following code.
If it's active sidebar sidebar 1 what we are doing here is testing if there is any active widget inside
our Sidebar.
If it's true let's call a function here.
Dynamic sidebar sidebar One is if there's an active widget in the sidebar named sidebar one we load
the contents of that sidebar.
Excellent but it's not ready for this new file to be useful.
You have to include it somewhere on our screen but where.
Well let's start with the home page.
We want to include our new file here where you see the sidebar text of course.
OK but how do we require a file that contains a sidebar.
Very simple just use of Wordpress function called Get underscore sidebar
by doing so when we're below the home page we will see some results.
Look we have a text widget with a title and also with content that we added on the widget.
Great.
Now how can we do the same for the second site you are the one that we want to display on the blog page.
Do we need to use the same site speech file.
Is it possible to create choose Yardbird that page be files one for each sidebar.
And my answer is yes.
In order for this to work let's rename the sidebar that page before.
Now it'll be called sidebar HIF and home that page B we will only use this file to add the sidebar of
the home page template.
Sounds obvious doesn't it.
It's because it's really obvious.
Let's copy the entire contents of this file and paste it into a new file.
This one will be called sidebar hive and blog dot page be now.
Just replace the name of the sidebar inside this new file.
Otherwise it will load the same sidebar as the home page and it's not what we want.
Now I have two files one of them adds a sidebar to the home page template.
The other one adds the second Sagger to only be displayed on the blog page.
Now to finish out when you pass the string to the sidebar function here in the page home that page B
file we add the word home inside to get side bar function Skop it is here.
And ending the X-File let's face what we just copied here at the point where we want to call the sidebar.
Just take care to change the name of the template which shall now be blog that is here at this point.
The file included is this one here sidebar hyphen blog that PH BE now our problems are solved.
Let's head over to our dashboard.
And you add some widgets to the blog page Ciber.
That's an archive widget
and category's widget.
Now let's see
here on the home page we have the text.
We did and on the blog page.
We have the two widgets we just added.
Very cool.
See how much power this site bring to the site owner with them.
The user can add whatever we he or she wants.
They can even download their favorite widgets or plugins and use them as they wish.
OK you finish this lesson.
Let's make three more modifications here first.
How about we change the sidebar here.
Let's move it to the right side of the page.
Right to do that.
I'm going to cut this aside Steg and paste it after this closing div tag subline text makes this really
easy since it shows me exactly where this div ends.
The second modification that we want to do is get rid of the elements we don't want on the block page
for example on the blog page we don't want the slide section and also the services section here.
They'll only be displayed on the home page so I'll go ahead and remove these elements here.
So I don't want them here.
And the last one let's add a bootstrap for class to a side element called age 100.
This you cause the height of the settlements not to spend the entire height of the page.
We can do the same for the A-side tag on the page home page file OK.
Excellent.
Let's save reload page perfect.
It's working.
Some things implements side bars in a different way.
For example if we open the 20:17 thing you'll notice that.
First of all it performs a check here.
It's saying the following if the sidebar named sidebar one is not active notice the page being not operator
return that is do nothing else.
If we get this far we do have widgets and then it actually includes the sidebar inside and the size
tag.
In our case we choose to add the side stack outside of the side bar fire itself.
So the size stack will always be displayed.
It doesn't matter if we have content or not.
In a sidebar in-turn the 2016 thing does the same way I do.
The only difference is that it uses the A-side stack inside the file too.
Well these are possibilities.
And you as the developer can choose the one you like the most.
The important thing is to know how to get here exactly what I'm teaching you at the moment.
So for now that's all I wait for you then in the next lesson by.